This is not the statement that we wanted to make today.

First, we must acknowledge the danger that vulnerable groups are facing under a second Trump administration, including women, African Americans, immigrants, members of the LGBTQ+ community, Muslims, Jews, and many others. We must do everything we can to support those who will be impacted by the hateful and discriminatory policies of Donald Trump. 

Respecting democracy means accepting the results of our elections, no matter how unpleasant they are. This was a free and fair election, and unlike Donald Trump, we are prepared to accept defeat. The president-elect must be given a chance to govern, and our opposition to his administration must be directed towards the benefit of the country, not born out of spite. We don’t yet know who will control the House of Representatives, or exactly how many Democratic Senators there will be. But our party must use every mandate given to us to protect our constituents.

This is a devastating result for our party. While victory was never assured, we never anticipated such a significant rejection of our values. Over the next few months, there will be much analysis done of the election results and polling data to determine what went wrong. Now is the time for calm introspection. It is clear that there is not one single factor responsible for our defeat, but many. We recognize and share the anger of some Democrats regarding President Biden’s response to the war in Gaza, and the subsequent genocide. We acknowledge that some, particularly young voters, men, and those that live in rural areas, believe that the Democratic Party does not represent them or care about their interests. We must work to regain the trust that has been lost. It is also clear that running for President in this country as a woman, or person of color, or both, comes with significant challenges.

We want to thank Vice President Kamala Harris for her well-run campaign. She is an inspiration to millions of people in this country and around the world. We also want to thank Governor Tim Walz, who brought energy and passion to this campaign that is rarely seen among politicians. The sincerity of these two individuals is rare among the political class.

We know that many students will be feeling incredibly nervous today. Many face an uncertain future, many face losing their much-needed financial aid, and many feel that their rights are not recognized by a country that is dominated by white male politicians. The Young Democrats at Georgia State are prepared to provide any assistance we can to our students and faculty during this difficult time. It is also the responsibility of Donald Trump to live up to the high standards he has set himself. He must prove that he has earned the support he has received from the American people, and to quell the fears of those who believe he is determined to hurt them. 

This country has faced significant challenges before, and we have always overcome them. We are confident that our institutions can withstand the damage that Donald Trump may do. However flawed they may have been, our founders created a strong political system. We call upon our institutions, including the Supreme Court, Congress, and cabinet to hold the president-elect to account and uphold the system of checks and balances that has withstood tyranny for 235 years. The fight for equality, reproductive justice, civil rights, and freedom for all continues.
Long live the republic.

Young Democrats at Georgia State University.
